RUTH
1 ln the days when the judges ruled, people.” ll But Naomi said, “Turn back,
there was a famine in the land, and my daughters, why will you go with
a certain man of Bethlehem in Judah me?l)olstill have sonsin my womb that
went to live in the country of Moab, he they may become your husbands?
and his wife and two sons. 3The name of 13Turn back, my daughters, go your
the man was Elimelech and the name of way, for I am too old to have a husband.
his wife Naomi, and the names of his Even ifl thought there was hope for me,
two sons were Mahlon and Chiliou; they even ifl should have a husband tonight
were Ephrathites from Bethlehem in _lu— and bear sons, 13would you then wait
dah. They went into the country of until they were grown? Would you then
Moab and remained there. 3But lilime- refrain from marrying? No, my daugh-
lech, the husband of Naomi, died, and ters, it has been ﬁir more bitter for me
she was left with her two sons. *These than for you, because the hand of the
took Moabite wives; the name ofthe one LORI) has turned against me.” “Then
was Orpah and the name of the other they wept aloud again. Orpah kissed her
Ruth. When they had lived there about mother-in-law, but Ruth clung to her.
ten years, 5both Mahlon and Chilion also 15 So she said, “See, your sister-in-
died_ so that the woman was left without law has gone back to her people and to
her two sons and her husband. her gods; return after your sister-in-
(1 Then she started to return with her law." “But Ruth said,
daughters-in-law from the country of “Do not press me to leave you
Moab, for she had heard in the country or to turn back from following
of Moab that the LORI) had considered you!
his people and given them food. 75o she Where you go, I will go;
set out from the place where she had been where you lodge, l will lodge;
living, she and her two claughters-in- your people shall be my people,
law, and they went on their way to go and your God my God.
back to the land ofjudah. “But Naomi 17 Where you die, l will die—
said to her two daughters-in-law, “(lo there will I be buried.
back each ofyou to your mother’s house. May the LORD do thus and so to
May the LORI) deal kindly with you, as me,
you have dealt with the dead and with and more as well,
me. "The LORI) grant that you may find if even death parts me from youl“
security, each ofyou in the house ofyour “When Naomi saw that she was deter-
husband." Then she kissed them, and mined to go with her, she said no more
they wept aloud. "’They said to her, to her.
“No, we will return with you to your 19 So the two of them went on until
|i\‘.znm1' and 111'!‘ ,\loi1/lire l)i1/be/1ri'rs~1'n—l.i1ii/I
267

﻿RUTH 1.20
they came to Bethlehem. When they ten, my daughter, do not go to glean in
came to Bethlehem, the whole town was another ﬁeld or leave this one, but keep
stirred because of them; and the women close to my young women. "Keep your
said, “Is this Naomi?” 2°She said to eyes on the ﬁeld that is being reaped, and
them, follow behind them. I have ordered the
“Call me no longer Naomi,“ young men not to bother you. Ifyou get
call me Mara, b thirsty, go to the vessels and drink from
for the Almighty‘ has dealt what the young men have drawn.”
bitterly with me. 1"Then she fell prostrate, with her face to
21 I went away full, the ground, and said to him, “Why have
but the LORD has brought me I found favor in your sight, that you
back empty; should take notice of me, when I am a
why call me Naomi foreigner?" "But Boaz answered her,
When the LORD has dealt harshly “All that you have done for your
with” me, mother-in-law since the death of your
and the Almighty‘ has brought husband has been fully told me, and how
calamity upon me?" you left your father and mother and your
22 So Naomi returned together with native land and came to a people that you
Ruth the Moabite, her daughter-in-law, did not know before. 13May the LORD
who came back with her from the coun- reward you for your deeds, and may you
try ofMoab. They came to Bethlehem at have a full reward from the LORD, the
the beginning of the barley harvest. God of Israel, under whose wings you
2 NOW Naomi had a kinsman on her have come for refuge!” 13Then she said,
husband’s side, a prominent rich “May I continue to find favor in your
man, of the family of Elimeleeh, whose sight, my lord, for you have comforted
name was Boaz. 3And Ruth the Moabite me and spoken kindly to your servant,
said to Naomi, “Let me go to the ﬁeld even though I am not one of your ser-
and glean among the ears of grain, be- vants.”
hind someone in whose sight I may find 14 At mcakjmc B031 Said to her,
fa‘/OI-n Sh? Said to hcfy “G0, h1Y daugh" “Come here, and eat some of this bread,
ter.” 3S0 she went. She came and gleaned and dip your morscl in thc Sou; Wincf’
ih the ﬁeld h¢hihd the T¢9PCt5- A5 it h3P- So she sat beside the reapers, and he
P¢h@d> Shh Came to the Part of thc ﬁcld heaped up for her some parched grain.
b¢1Qhgihgt0 B032, WhO W35 Oftht tam? She ate until she was satisﬁed, and she
ly of Elimclech. 4]ust then Boaz came had some 16ft Ova, iswhcn She gotup to
fmm B¢th1@h@m- He Said to thc YCQPCYS, glean, Boaz instructed his young men,
“Thc LORD ht With You” Th@Y 3h- “Let her glean even among the standing
5“/Cfcd» “Th? LORD b1@55 YOU-” 5Th@h sheaves, and do not reproach her. “You
B031 Said to his $¢1'V3ht Who W115 ih must also pull out some handfuls for her
Charge of the T@3Pt‘T5, “T0 Whom C1095 from the bundles, and leave them for her
this Young Wothilh hﬁlohg?” (‘Th6 56* to glean, and do not rebuke her.”
Van‘ who W35 in charge of thc rcapcrs 17 So she gleaned in the ﬁeld until
answemd’ “She is thg Moabits who Came evening. Then she beat out what she had
back with Naomi from thg country of gleaned, and it was about an ephah of
MOab- 75116 Saldi iplmsei 16‘ m¢_ glean barley. 1* She picked it up and came into
and gather among the sheaves behind the the town, and hm mOthcr_in_1aW Saw
reapers.’ So she came, and she has been
on her feet from early this morning until _ _ _
now’ Without resting cvcn for a mO_ fgiidtifisogilaiihheriiig orfhlziielj 
IT1CI'11I.”‘ d Or has testified l|,Q£1IVl.ti 0 Compare Gk Vg:
8 Then B022 said t0 Ruth, “NOW liS— Meaning of Heb uncertain
how much she had gleaned. Then she
lRllII1IM('('ISl3(Il1Z|
268

﻿RUTH 4.2
took out and gave her what was left over was a woman! 9He said, “Who are you?
after she herself had been satisﬁed. 1"Her And she answered, “I am Ruth, your ser-
mother-in-law said to her, “Where did vant; spread your cloak over your ser-
you glean today? And where have you vant, for you are next-of-kin.”f 10He
worked? Blessed be the man who took said, “May you be blessed by the LORD,
notice of you.” So she told her mother- my daughter; this last instance of your
in-law with whom she had worked, and loyalty is better than the ﬁrst; you have
said, “The name of the man with whom not gone after young men, whether poor
I worked today is Boaz. " 2"Then Naomi or rich. 11 And now, my daughter, do not
said to her daughter—in—law, “Blessed be be afraid, I will do for you all that you
he by the LORD, whose kindness has not ask, for all the assembly of my people
forsaken the living or the dead!” Naomi know that you are a worthy woman.
also said to her, “The man is a relative of 12But now, though it is true that I am a
ours, one of our nearest kin.”/ Z1Then near kinsman, there is another kinsman
Ruth the Moabite said, “He even said to more closely related than I. 13Remain
me, ‘Stay close by my servants, until this night, and in the morning, ifhe will
they have ﬁnished all my harvest.' ” act as next-of-kinf for you, good; let
33Naomi said to Ruth, her daughter-in- him do it. If he is not willing to act as
law, “It is better, my daughter, that you next—of-kin/i for you, then, as the LORD
go out with his young women, 0ther- lives, I will act as next-of-kin/' for you.
wise you might be bothered in another Lie down until the morning.”
ﬁeld. " 33 So she stayed close to the young 14 So she lay at his feet until morning,
Women of Boaz, gleaning until the end but got up before one person could rec-
ofthe barley and wheat harvests; and she ognize another; for he said, “It must not
lived with her mother-in-law. be known that the woman came to the
3 Naomi her mother-in-law said to threshing ﬂoor.” 15Then he said, “Bring
her, “My daughter, I need to seek the cloak you are wearing and hold it
some security for you, so that it may be out.” So she held it, and he measured out
well with you. ZNOW here is our kins- six measures of barley, and put it on her
man Boaz, with whose young women back; then he went into the city. 16She
you have been Working. See, he is win- came to her mother-in-law, who said,
nowing barley tonight at the threshing “How did things go with you,¥ my
floor. 3Now wash and anoint yourself, daughter?" Then she told her all that the
and put on your best clothes and go man had done for her, 17saying, “He
down to the threshing floor; but do not gave me these six measures ofbarley, for
make yourselfknown to the man until he he said, ‘Do not go back to your mother-
has ﬁnished eating and drinking. 4When in-law empty-handed.’ ” “She replied,
he lies down, observe the place where he “Wait, my daughter, until you learn how
lies; then, go and uncover his feet and lie the matter turns out, for the man will not
down; and he will tell you what to do.” rest, but will settle the matter today.”
5She said to her, “All that you tell me I 4 No sooner had Boaz gone up to the
will do.” gate and sat down there than the
6 So she went down to the threshing next-of-kin,J of whom Boaz had spo-
floor and did just as her mother-in-law ken, came passing by. So Boaz said,
had instructed her. 7When Boaz had eat- “Come over, friend; sit down here.”
en and drunk, and he was in a contented And he went over and sat down. 2Then
mood, he went to lie down at the end of Boaz took ten men of the elders of the
the heap ofgrain. Then she came stealth- city, and said, “Sit down here”; so they
ily and uncovered his feet, and lay down.
8At midnight the man W35 startled» and f Or one with the right to redeem g Or "I/Vha
turned over, and there, lying at his feet, are you,
n
[Ruth and Boaz at the 'I‘hreshin,q Floor]
269

﻿RUTH 4.3
sat down. 3He then said to the next-of- place; today you are witnesses." "Then
kin, " “Naomi, who has come back from all the people who were at the gate, along
the country of Moab, is selling the parcel with the elders, said, “We are witnesses.
of land that belonged to our kinsman May the LORI) make the woman who is
Elimelech. 4S0 I thought I would tell you coming into your house like Rachel and
of it, and say: Buy it in the presence of Leah, who together built up the house of
those sitting here, and in the presence of Israel. May you produce children in Eph-
the elders of my people. If you will re- rathah and bestow a name in Bethlehem;
deem it, redeem it; but if you will not, '3and, through the children that the
tell me, so that I may know; for there is LORD will give you by this young wom-
no one prior to you to redeem it, and I an, may your house be like the house of
come after you.” So he said, “I will re- Perez, whom Tamar bore to Judah.”
deem it.” 5Then Boaz said, “The day 13 So Boaz took Ruth and she became
you acquire the ﬁeld from the hand of his wife. When they came together, the
Naomi, you are also acquiring Ruth‘ the LORD made her conceive, and she bore a
Moabite, the widow ofthe dead man, to son. “Then the women said to Naomi,
maintain the dead man’s name on his in- “Blessed be the LORD, who has not left
heritance." “At this, the next-of-kin" you this day without next-of-kin;" and
said, “I cannot redeem it for inyselfwith- may his name be renowned in Israel!
out damaging my own inheritance. Take l5He shall be to you a restorer oflife and
my right of redemption yourself, for I a nourisher of your old age; for your
cannot redeem it.” daughter-in-law who loves you, who is
7 Now this was the custom in former more to you than seven sons, has borne
times in Israel concerning redeeming and him.” “Then Naomi took the child and
exchanging: to confirm a transaction, the laid him in her bosom, and became his
one took off a sandal and gave it to the nurse. l7The women of the neighbor-
other; this was the manner ofattesting in hood gave him a name, saying, “A son
Israel. “So when the next-of—kin" said to has been born to Naomi.” They named
Boaz, “Acquire it for yourself,” he took him Obed; he became the father ofjesse,
off his sandal. "Then Boaz said to the the father ofl)avid.
elders and all the people, “Today you are 18 Now these are the descendants of
witnesses that I have acquired from the Perez: Perez became the father of Hez-
hand ofNaomi all that belonged to Elim— ron, l"Hezron of Rani, Ram ofAnimin—
elech and all that belonged to Chilion and adab, 3l'Amminadab of Nahshon, Nah-
Mahlon. 101 have also acquired Ruth the shon ofSalmon, 31 Salmon ofBoaz, Boaz
Moabite, the wife of Mahlon, to be my of Obed, 33Obed ofjesse, and Jesse of
wife, to maintain the dead man's name David.
on his inheritance, in order that the name
of the dead nmy not bc Cut Off {foul his Ii Or um’ with rlir right In redumi i OL Vg:
kindred and from the gate of his native Hebfrum the hand qfi\’iwmi andfwm Rmh
|'I'l1e .\I<irri'i1_q 1' of Boil: iirid Ru!/1|
Z70

