THE REVELATION
TO JOHN
1 The revelation of ]esus Christ, with you in Jesus the persecution and the
which God gave him to show his kingdom and the patient endurance, was
servants“ what must soon take place; he on the island called Patmos because of
made” it known by sending his angel to the Word of God and the testimony of
his servant’ john, Zwho testified to the Jesus./' “II was in the spirit“ on the
word of God and to the testimony of Lord’s day, and I heard behind me aloud
jesus Christ, even to all that he saw. voice like a trumpet "saying, “Write in
3 Blessed is the one who reads aloud a book what you see and send it to the
the words of the prophecy, and blessed seven churches, to Ephesus, to Smyrna,
are those who hear and who keep what to Pergamum, to Thyatira, to Sardis, to
is written in it; for the time is near. Philadelphia, and to Laodicea.”
12 Then I turned to see whose voice
4 _]Ohn [O tl'1€ S€VCl] Cl’lL1I'Cl'1CS that QTC it W35 that Spgkc [Q mg’ and Qn turning
in Asia: I saw seven golden lampstands, 13 and in
Gt¥1C¢ to You and PCQCQ tmih him Wh0 the midst of the lampstands I saw one
is and who was and who is to Come, and like the Son of Man, clothed with a long
from the seven spirits who are before his robe and with 3 goldcn Sash across his
thronﬁa Sand fromlcsus ChYi5t- thc f3ith- chest. “His head and his hair were White
ful Witness, the firstborn ofthe dead, and 35 whim WOOL Whig; 35 Snow; his Q3/Q5
the ruler of the kings of the earth. were likc 3 ﬂame of ﬁre, 15hi5 {ca Wen-
T0 him Wh0 i0V¢5 U5 and tT¢¢Ci‘1 U5 like burnished bronze, reﬁned as inafur-
from OUT $ih5 hY hi5 hi0°ti, t’<ih<i méldci nace, and his voice was like the sound of
U5 to 13¢ 11 kingdom» Priests 5CTVihg' his many waters. “In his right hand he held
G0d and Filth“, to him ht? giOtY and seven stars, and from his mouth came a
dominion forever and ever. Amen. Sharp’ twmcdgcd Sword, and his fau-
7 L°°i<i Ht‘ i5 Coming With tht‘ was like the sun shining with full force.
Clouds; _ , 17 When 1 saw him, 1r¢11 at his feet as
evety eye W111 See h1m~_ though dead. But he placed his right
even these _Wh° p1e1eet1 h1111i , hand on me, saying, “Do not be afraid;
and O11 1115 3eeO11ht_1111 the t11he5 lam the ﬁrst and the last, Wand the living
_ _ of the earth W111 W311 one. Iwas dead, and see, lam alive forev-
SO 1t 15 to he Ame“ er and ever; and I have the keys of Death
8 “I am the Alpha and the O111eg91»” and of Hades. i‘1I\Iow write what you
says the Lord God, who is and who was
11
and who is to Comc‘ thc Alnlighty Gk slaves h Gk and he made t Gk slave
d Other ancient authorities read washed
e Gk priem Io f Or H’.\'!INl(771)/ I0]z'.\'z4.\'
9 I, john, your brother who share g Or in rhr» Spivir
[AI'i.<io11n_r'(II1ri.\/I
266

﻿REVELATION 2.21
have seen, what is, and what is to take who has an ear listen to what the Spirit
place after this. 3"/\s for the mystery of is saying to the churches. Whoever con-
the seven stars that you saw in my right quers will not be harmed by the second
hand, and the seven golden lampstands: death.
the seven stars are the angels ofthe seven
churches, and the seven lampstaiids are 12 “And to the angel Oftllt; Church in
thc 5°V°n Cl1uYCh°5- Pergamum write: These are the words of
him who has the sharp two-edged
2 “To the angel ofthe church in Ephe- Sword;
him iszoizrs.;$;z:;::.;?:.:i2:i§g;f 13  know    
‘ where Satan's throne is. Yet you are
hand‘ who Walks among the Sewn gold‘ holding fast to my name, and you did not
cn lampsnmdsi deny your faith in me“ even in the days
2 “I k.nOW your Works‘ your toil and of Antipas my witness, my faithful one,
your patient endurance. I know that you who was klllctl among yon’ Wnnrc Satan
cannot tolerate evildoers; you have tested llVt_S_ l4Bnt l llave 3 few tlnngs ngalnst
those who claim to be apostles but are yon you have some there who hold to
not’ and have found thcm tO.be ms?‘ 31 the teaching of Balaain, who taught Ba-
also know that you arc Cndurmg paUCnt_ lak to put a stumbling block before the
ly and bcarmg up for the Sakc of my people of Israel, so that they would eat
name’ and that you haw not grown W03“ food sacriﬁced to idols and practice for-
ry. 4But I have this against you, that you ~ ~ l
l b d d n 1 hid l, nication. 5S0 you also have some who
lave?‘ an Om t I O“ you ‘I at ﬁst‘ hold to the teaching of the Nicolaitans.
i.IllCn1_6mbQr than flronn Whatkyou h?lY§ "*Repent then. Ifnot, I will come to you
3 m’ mpcm’ an ‘Qt C Wot S you 1 soon and make war against them with
at ﬁrst. If not, I Wlll come t0_y0u and tnc Sword of my month‘ l7Lct anyone
remove your lampsftzmd ﬁqm. “S placc’ who has an ear listen to what the Spirit
unkss you repent‘ ‘Yet thls 15 to Your is saying to the churches To everyone
Crcduzlnqllhhlatf thl‘ Worlaiofthc Nl_C0l;1' who conquers I will give some of the
tans’ W 1° 3 SO mu‘ “t anyom W O hidden manna, and I will give a white
has an Car hstcn to What the Spmt ls S33“ stone, and on the white stone is written
mg to the Ch“,rCh?S' To “",°“_/°"° who a new name that no one knows except
conquers, I W1ll'g1VC permission to eat the one who rccclvcs in
from the tree oflife that is in the paradise
of God 18 “And to the angel ofthe church in
Thyatira write: These are the words of
8 “And to the angel of the church in l . t
Smyrna write: These are the words ofthe tlltfson Ofdcog’ Whfo 1:35 cllcli mtg‘: 3 
- o ire an w ose ‘e ar i e urnis e
tirst and the last, who was dead and came b ’)_ ‘ €
to life: mm“
9 “I know your affliction and your 19 “I know Your WOrk5—YOur IOVC»
povttty even though you are tlcll l faith, service, and patient endurance. I
ltncw tht. Slander on the part of tllost. know that your last works are greater
who Say that thcy are Jews and art. not, than the ﬁrst. 3"But I have this against
but art. 3 Synagogue of Satan 1i,D0 not you: you tolerate that woman Jezebel,
fear what you are about to suffer. I3e- who C3115 hcrsclfa prophct and is mach“
Ware the tlcvll ls about to throw Somt. of ing and beguiling my servants‘ to prac-
you lnto prison so that ynu may bc tt.St_ tice fornication and to eat food sacriﬁced
ed and for ten days you will have afflic- to “I019 Zll gavc her “me to rcpcnb but
tlOn_ BC faithful until dtathy and l will she refuses to repent of her fornication.
give you the crown oflife. ll Let anyone Ii Ordmy myjliirh i‘ Gk .<Iiwi».-
[l"I()_I_\ LIlQ i'.\" In lip Ii t'.\'HS, S m y rnu, I)(’I'lQiIII! ll HI, Th yiiliriil
267

﻿REVELATION 2.22
2ZBeware, I am throwing her on a bed, 7 “And to the angel of the church in
and those who commit adultery with her Philadelphia write:
I am throwing into great distress, unless Thcsc arc thc Words of the holy
they repent of her doings; 33and I will One, the ;ru¢ Om;
strike her children dead. And all the who has the key of David’
churches will know that I am the one who Opens and no one Win
who searches minds and hearts, and I Shut,
will give to each of you as your works who Shuts and no Om Opcns.
deserve. 24 But to the rest ofyouin Thya— 8 Ml know your Works‘ Look’ I have
tira, who do not hold this teaching, who Set bet-Ore Ou an O cn doo which no
have not learned what some call ‘the deep Om is able :0 Shut Iilnow tgglt you have
things ofSatan,’ to you I say, Ido not lay but little OWC gmd ct on have ke t
. r,
on You any other burdcliilzj only Zlgflld my WO1'dI;lnCl have noglderilied my namle
f h ' . - '
est to W at you avg unn Come O "I Wlll make those of the synagogue of
everyone who conquers and continues to Satan who Sa that the are Jews and are
Y V
do fnyﬁvofks to Lhe .°“d~ h not, but are lyiiig—I will make them
W1 glvf. we Onty Over t C come and bow down before your feet,
, na long’ . . and they will learn that I have loved you.
J to rule] [hem with an Iron red’ 1‘)Because you have kept my word of
as W?1§;;l§Cydg)tS are patient endurance, I will keep you from
. . the hour of trial that is coming on the
Zsevcn as I also recclved authomy from whole world to test the inhabitants ofthe
my Father‘ To the one who Conquers I earth "I am coming soon" hold fast to
'll l ' h ' 39L ' ’
W1 0365‘;/Elvllst 36 glffiligg {:3/‘hat dig what you have, so that no one may seize
any n O n our crown 13lf ou con ue I will
. . . . y . y q r,
Spmt ls Saying ta the Churches‘ make you a pillar in the temple of my
,, . God; you will never go out of it. I will
3 SAX? to  alga of thﬁ churfih H} write on you the name of my God, and
him §i§O‘ﬁ§§§i§§;W§§§ ‘Ell §?Z';‘Zii Z511 *1“ “me Of the “Y °‘ my G“, “I” new
the Sewn SmrS_ P Jerusalem that comes down from my
“Ik ' k _ h ) God out of heaven, and my own new
now your wor s, you ave 2113I'I1t, mmc 13L€tan h
. . 2 . yone w o has an ear listen
of being alive, but you are dead. Wake to What th S int is - t th
. . e in o
up, and strengthen what remains and is Churches. p Say g C
on the point of death, for I have not
found your works perfect in the sight of 14 “And to the an cl of the Church in
G d. 3R b h l1 - , . g
 
Ou do not Wake u I “AH Come like a the faithful and true witness, the originl"
Y P, y _ - ,
thief, and you will not know at what of (Bod S Creation‘
hour I will come to you. ‘Yet you have 13 “I know Your Works? You are nei‘
still a few persons in Sardis who have not tuer eold not hoe I Wlsh that You were
soiled their clothes; they will walk with euher eold or hot; moo’ beeause You are
me, drgssed in White’ for they arc WOr_ lukewarm,_and neither cold nor hot, lam
thy. 5Ifyou conquer, you will be clothed about to SP" You out ofmy moutu UFO‘
like them in white robes, and I will not You Say’ ‘I am nehi Ihave prospered’ and
blot your name out of the book oflife; l I need nothing’ You do not reduze Phat
will confess your name before my Father You are Wretehed» Pludblei Poor’ bund’
and bgfore his angc1S_ (,L€t anyonc who and naked. “Therefore I counsel you to
has an ear listen to what the Spirit is say~ ouY from me gold reﬁned by ﬁre so that
ing ITO El1C Cl'1ll1"Cl1€S. j Or to shepherd I? Or loegiiiiiing
ll7l4E'.\_§(1‘Q('_efOSl1l'dlS,PllIllId(’l]7l1it1,l4¢1(ll1li[(’lIl
268

﻿REVELATION 5.9
you may be rich; and white robes to who was and is and is to
clothe you and to keep the shame ofyour come. ii
nakedness from being seen; and salve to "And whenever the living creatures give
annint YQUY @Y@5 50tn1"Y0n n111Y 590- W1 glory and honor and thanks to the one
T@Il‘YO\’¢ and di$CiPnn¢ tl'105¢ Whom I who is seated on the throne, who lives
love. Be earnest, therefore, and repent. fort-vcr and Cvers lnthe tWCmy_fOur C1-
2'iLi5t¢nl I 9111 Standing it tn? dnnfi ders fill before the one who is seated on
knocking; ifY<>11 n¢1Y1nY Vniﬂ‘ and OP¢n the throne and worship the one who lives
tn? dnor» I Will Cnlni‘ in Y0 YOU and Ci" forever and ever; they cast their crowns
 YOU, and YOU  ITIC. 21 TO thC OIIC bgforg thc thfoncy Singing’
who conquers l will give a place with me 11 “you are Wmthy, our Lord and
on my throne, just as I myself conquered God’
and sat down with my Father on his to receive glory and honor and
throne. 33 Let anyone who has an ear lis- powgra
ten to what the Spirit is saying to the for you Crcatcd an things
h h H ,
C MC es‘ and by your will they existed
After this l looked, and there in and Whrc Crcatcdiii
heaven a door stood open! And the 5 Tiicii I Saw in thc right hand of tiih
ﬁrst voice whichlhad heard speaking to Oiic Scatid on the throne i Scmii
me like 3 trumpet’ Said‘ “Come up here written on the inside and on the hack,
, ’ <, » , t . 3.
andlwill show you what musttake place “aicdm with sewn Stais’ and i Saw 2
after this ” 3At once l was in the spirit ' mighty angel prociaimiiig with 3 imid
and there in heaven stood a throne with Voice’ iiwho is Worthy to Ohcn thc Scroll
, - _ ,,,, 3 »
one seated on the throne! ~"And the one find break its S‘]ai§' gmdhho O26 in
seated there looks like jasper and carne- icavcn or on can i or iiii “rt t hart W?“
lian and around the throne is a rainbow ‘ibic to Open thh Scroii or to iook into it‘
that’ looks like an emerald. 4Around the 4Aiid i began to Weep bittcriy because no
throne MC tWCmy_fOur thrones and one was found worthy to open the scroll
seated on the thrones are twenty-four el- or to iook into it‘ 5Thm Ont‘ Otthc Cidcrs
ders, dressed in white robes, with golden said to iiic’ DO not Wtch Sci’ thc Lion
crowns on their heads. 5Coniing from Oftim tribc Ofhidaii‘ the Root OfD‘iVid’
the throne are ﬂashes of lightning and has conquered’ so that he can Open the
rumblings and peals of thunder, and in Scroii and its Scvcn SmiS'"
front of the throne burn seven ﬂaming t‘ Thch I_53W htitwhch the thtoht‘ ahd
torches, which are the seven spirits of tht‘ tnhr hvlng CT@3t_uT¢5 Qndflmong tnc
God; sand in from of the throm. thcrc is elders a Lamb standing as if it had been
something like a sea of glass, like crystal. Slahghtctcth havlhg 56‘/6h hhths ahtl 59V“
Around the throne, and on each side of Ch CYCS’ Whlth “C the 5€Vch splhts of
the throne are four living creatures full God Scht out lhto ah the t‘3rth- 7H6 Wcht
of eyes ini front and behind: 7Kl1CiﬁfS[ and tohk the 5CT°h from the Tight hand
living creature like a lion, the second liv- Otthc Ohc who W35 Stated Oh the thtOhC~
ing creature like an ox, the third living iitxthch he had takch the Stroll’ thh tout
creature with a face like a human face, hvlhg Ctcatutcs ahd the tWChtY'tOht cl“
and the fourth living Cream“ like 3 ﬂy_ ders fell before the Lamb, each holding a
ing eagle. 8/‘ind the four living creatures, hat? and g01d@n b0W15 full Of1nCC_n$¢i
each of them with six wings, are full of Whlch are thc Pmycts of tht 531ht5-
eyes all around and inside. l)ay and night gTh°Y Slhg 3 hew 50hg3
without ct-aging they sing, “You are worthy to take the scroll
uhloly» holy! holy, ‘ I Or in the Spirit m Or written mi the iriyide,
tl1C LOI"d G061 tllﬁ Almighty, and smlvd on the bark
|'l'h(' [1t'ill’t'H/y I/Vur.\'hip]
269

﻿REVELATION 5.10
and to open its seals, “Co1ne!”I‘ l looked, and there was a
for you Were slaughtered and by black horse! lts rider held a pair of scales
your blood you ransomed in his hand, “and I heard what seemed to
for God be a voice in the midst of the four living
saints from " every tribe and creatures saying, “A quart of wheat for a
language and people and day's pay,’ and three quarts ofbarley for
nation; a day’s pay,’ but do not damage the ol-
l° you have made them to be a ive oil and the wine!”
kingdom and priests 7 When he opened the fourth seal, I
serving“ our God, heard the voice ofthe fourth living crea-
and they will reign on earth.” ture call out, “Come!”I’ 81 looked and
11 Then I looked, and I heard the there was a pale green horse! Its rider's
voice of many angels surrounding the name was Death, and Hades followed
throne and the living creatures and the with him; they were given authority
elders; they numbered myriads of1nyri- over a fourth of the earth, to kill with
ads and thousands of thousands, l3sing- sword, famine, and pestilence, and by
ing with full voice, the wild animals of the earth.
“Worthy is the Lamb thflt W85 9 When he opened the ﬁfth seal, [saw
slaughtered under the altar the souls ofthose who had
to receive power and wealth and been slaughtered for the word of God
WiSdOn"1 and might and for the testimony they had given;
and honor and glory and l"they cried out with a loud voice, “Sov-
blessingl” ereign Lord, holy and true, how long
“Then I heard every creature in heaven will it be before yon judge and avenge
and on earth and under the earth and in onr blood on the inhabitants of the
the sea, and all that is in them, singing, earth?” 11They were each given 3 white
“To the one seated on the throne robe and told to rest a little longer, until
and to the Lanlh the number would be complete both of
be blessing and honor and glory their fellow servants‘ and oftheir broth-
élnd might ers and sisters,’ who were soon to be
forever and ever!" killed as they themselves had been killed.
"And the four living creatures said, 12 When he opened the sixth seal, I
“Amen!” And the elders fell dOWIl Lllld looked, ;1]](‘l there eglnc 3 great earth-
worshiped. quake; the sun became black as sack-
cloth, the full moon became like blood,
6 Then I saw the Lamb open one of Band the stars ofthe sky fell to the earth
the seven seals, and l heard one of as the ﬁg tree drops its winter fruit when
tl1€ fOUl' living CI"C£![L1I‘€S Cilll out, 35 With ghgkcn by 3 gale, l4Tl1Q gky vanished like
a voice of thunder, “COlnel”” 31 looked, a scroll rolling itselfup, and every moun-
and tl1Cl”C W85 3 VVlll[C l1Ol"SCl IIS fl(lCf had tgjn and island was rclnovcd from its
11 b0W; P1 CFOWI1 W35 8lV¢n I0 him. ﬁnd he place. l5Then the kings of the earth and
came out conquering and to conquer. the magnates and the generals and the
3 When he opened the second seal, l rich and the powerful, and everyone,
heard the second living creature call out, Slave and free, hid in the caves and
“Come!” 4And out came“ another among the rocks of the mountains,
l10Y5@, bright fcdl lts Tldcf W115 lxmlittﬁd lﬁcalling to the mountains and rocks,
to take peace from the earth, so that peo— “Fall on us and hide us from the face of
ple would slaughter one another; and he the one seated on the throne and from the
was glvcn 3 grcat Sword‘ _ n Gk nirisoniedﬁir Codfmm 0 Gk priwls to
5 Wllcll hc Opened the thud 5931’ I p Or "(§0.'" q Or ll’t'lIl r Gktz dt’1l(1VllLY
heard the third living creature call out, .< (ikslai/es r (il(lIVOll1(’Y_\
I Th 1' S 1' I’ on .\'t'ti[_\~]
270

﻿REVELATION 8.3
wrath ofthe Lamb; 17for the great day of hands. l"They cried out in a loud voice,
their wrath has come, and who is able to saying,
stand?“ “Salvation belongs to our God
After this l saw four angels standing who is seated on the
7 at the four corners of the earth, throne, and to the Lamb!”
holding back the four winds of the earth ll And all the angels stood around the
so that no wind could blow on earth or throne and around the elders and the four
sea or against any tree. 31 saw another living creatures, and they fell on their
angel ascending from the rising of the faces before the throne and worshiped
sun, having the seal of the living God, God, llsinging,
and ht? C3llCCl  2<1lOLld VOlCC [0 [l'1C {OUT “Anicnl Blcgging and glgfy and
angels who had been given power to wi5dQ[n
damage earth and sea, 3saying, “Do not and thanksgiving and honor
damage the earth or the sea or the trees, and power and might
until we have marked the servants“ of bc to our God forever and ever!
our God with a seal on their foreheads.” Amen”
4 And l hcard the “umber of those 13 Then one of the elders addressed
who were sealed, one hundred forty- me, Saying’ “Who arc these, robed in
four thousand, sealed out of every tribe whim.’ and When. have thcy Come from?”
of thc People Of l5r3Cl3 l4l said to him, “Sir, you are the one that
5 From the tribe of Judah twelve knows,” ThQ]] hq Said to m¢_ “Thcsg are
Yll°ll51"1d§@3l¢<l» they who have come out of the great
from the tribe of Reuben twelve Qrdggl; thcy hgvq w;15hQd thcir rob;-5 and
fh0l1511I1d. made them white in the blood of the
from the tribe of Gad twelve thou- L3n'1l[)_
Slllldr l5 For this reason they are before the
6 from the tribe of Asher twelve throne of God,
tl1OHS11I1d. and worship him day and night
from the tribe of Naphtali twelve within his tgrnplg,
fl10l1$11l1d. and the one who is seated on
from the tribe of Manasseli twelve the throne will shelter
thousand, them.
7 from the tribe of Simeon twelve 1° They will hun Yer no more, and
V 2»
thousand, thirst no more;
from the tribe of Levi twelve tliou- UK‘ SL111 Will 110$ Stfikl‘ thﬁm»
sand, nor any scorching heat;
from the tribe of lssachar twelve l7 fol’ Yhi‘ Lamb ﬂffllt‘ CCHIQY Of fhi‘
thousand, throne will be their
8 from the tribe of Zebulun twelve 5l1CPl_1L‘1’d»A
thousand, and he will guide them to
from the tribe of Joseph twelve 5Pl'111g$ Of I119 WQYCY Ofllfi‘,
[nQn5;nn{_ and God will wipe away every
from the tribe of Benjamin twelve will from tllcll €ye5'”
tlmusmd SL.3]Cd_ 8 When the Lamb opened the seventh
9 Aft“ this I looked and them was a seal, there was silence in heaven for
great multitude that no one could count about halfall h°ul- 2/llld l Saw the Seven
from every nation from all tribes and angels who Stand before God‘ and Seven
peoples and languages, standing before tlumpcts were glvcll F0 them"
the throne and before the Lamb, robed in 3 Allothcr angel Wllll 3 golden 031159‘
White, with palm branches in their H (;k_<lai»e_<
[Thell/IillrilildefroniIIi1i'ryNii!ioi1]
Z71

﻿REVELATION 8.3
wrath ofthe Lamb; 17for the great day of hands. ll’They cried out in a loud voice,
their wrath has come, and who is able to saying,
stand?” “Salvation belongs to our God
'7 After this l saw four angels standing who is seated on the
at the four corners of the earth, throne, and to the Lamb!”
holding back the four winds of the earth "And all the angels stood around the
so that no wind could blow on earth or throne and around the elders and the four
sea or against any tree. 3l saw another living creatures, and they fell on their
angel ascending from the rising of the faces before the throne and worshiped
sun, having the seal of the living God, God, 13singing,
and ht) C3llC(l With 3 lOL1d VOiCC [0 [l1C {OUT “Anicnl Blessing and glgry and
angels who had been given power to wi5dQ[1]
damage earth and sea, ~”saying, “Do not and thanksgiving and h()nQf
damage the earth or the sea or the trees, and power and might
until we have marked the servants“ of bc to our God forevﬂ and evﬂ]
our God with a seal on their foreheads.” Amcnf’
4 And I hcard the “umber of those 13 Then one of the elders addressed
who were sealed, one hundred forty- me, Saying‘ “Who arc thcscy robed in
four thousand, sealed out of every tribe whim’ and Whcrc haw they Comc from?"
of thc PCQPIC OfI51'3¢l3 l4l said to him, “Sir, you are the one that
5 From the tribe of Judah twelve knowsf’ ThQ]] 11¢ Said to mg, “Thggg are
Yh0\l$¥111d5¢‘@11@d, they who have come out of the great
from the tribe of Reuben twelve Qfdﬁﬂl; thcy havg w3§hQd thcir I'()bQ§ and
fl"10l1S11l1d, made them white in the blood of the
from the tribe of Gad twelve thou- L;1mb_
Sand, l5 For this reason they are before the
6 from the tribe of Asher twelve throne of God,
thousand, and worship him day and night
from the tribe of Naphtali twelve within his temple;
thoklsllﬂd. and the one who is seated on
from the tribe of Manasseh twelve the throne Will shelter
thousand, K110111-
7 from the tribe of Simeon twelve 16 They will hunger no more, and
thousand, thirst no more;
from the tribe of Levi twelve thou- I116 SUI1 Will I10! Stfikk‘ thﬁm,
sand, nor any scorching heat;
from the tribe of lssachar twelve 17 ﬁll‘ Fhﬂ‘ Lamb 3? $110 Ccnlfff Of [l1¢
thousand, throne will be their
8 from the tribe of Zebulun twelve 5hCPh¢1'd,
thousand, and he will guide them to
from the tribe of Joseph twelve 5DYil"1g5 Of $119 WHEY Oflifk‘,
thousami and God will wipe away every
from the tribe of Benjamin twelve mar from thcir eyes",
thousand SCa1L.d_ 8 When the Lamb opened the seventh
9 Afar this I looked, and thtu was 3 seal, there was silence in heaven for
grcat multitude that no Onc Could count about halfan hour. 3And l saw the seven
from every nation from all tribes and angcls who Stand bcforc God’ and Seven
peoples and languages, standing before trumpcts Wcrc glvcn F0 them‘
the throne and before the Lamb robed in 3 Another angcl Wlth 3 golden C6115“
white, with palm branches in their H (il(.\'l(|l/(‘S
[T/1 0 [ll ulli/ii (1 1' fro m If 1' e r y .\'iiriui11
271

﻿REVELATION 8.4
came and stood at the altar; he was given 3he opened the shaft of the bottomless
a great quantity of incense to offer with pit, and from the shaft rose smoke like
the prayers of all the saints on the golden the smoke ofa great furnace, and the sun
altar that is before the throne. ‘And the and the air were darkened with the
smoke ofthe incense, with the prayers of smoke from the shaft. 3Then from the
the saints, rose before God from the hand smoke came locusts on the earth, and
of the angel. 5Then the angel took the they were given authority like the au-
censer and ﬁlled it with ﬁre from the altar thority of scorpions of the earth. 4They
and threw it on the earth; and there were were told not to damage the grass of the
peals of thunder, rumblings, flashes of earth or any green growth or any tree,
lightning, and an earthquake. but only those people who do not have
6 Now the seven angels who had the the seal ofGod on their foreheads. 5They
seven trumpets made ready to blow were allowed to torture them for ﬁve
them. months, but not to kill them, and their
7 The ﬁrst angel blew his trumpet, torture was like the torture ofa scorpion
and there came hail and ﬁre, mixed with when it stings someone. “And in those
blood, and they were hurled to the earth; days people will seek death but will not
and a third of the earth was burned up, ﬁnd it; they will long to die, but death
and a third of the trees were burned up, will ﬂee from them.
and all green grass was burned up. 7 In appearance the locusts were like
8 The second angel blew his trumpet, horses equipped for battle. On their
and something like a great mountain, heads were what looked like crowns of
burning with ﬁre, was thrown into the gold; their faces were like human faces,
sea. 9A third of the sea became blood, a “their hair like women’s hair, and their
third of the living creatures in the sea teeth like lions’ teeth; "they had scales
died, and a third of the ships were de- like iron breastplates, and the noise of
stroyed. their wings was like the noise of many
1() The third angel blew his trumpet, chariots with horses rushing into battle.
and a great star fell from heaven, blazing “’They have tails like scorpions, with
like a torch, and it fell on a third of the stingers, and in their tails is their power
rivers and on the springs of water. “The to harm people for ﬁve months. “They
name of the star is Wormwood. A third have as king over them the angel of the
of the waters became Wormwood, and bottomless pit; his name in Hebrew is
many died from the water, because it Abaddon," and in Greek he is called
was made bitter. Apollyon. “'
12 The fourth angel blew his trun1— 12 The ﬁrst woe has passed. There are
pet, and a third ofthe sun was struck, and still two woes to come.
a third of the moon, and a third of the I3 Then the sixth angel blew his
stars, so that a third of their light was trumpet, and I heard a voice from the
darkened; a third of the day was kept four’ horns of the golden altar before
from shining, and likewise the night. God, “saying to the sixth angel who had
13 Thenllooked, andlheard an eagle the trumpet, “Release the four angels
crying with a loud voice as it flew in who are bound at the great river Euphra-
midheaven, “Woe, woe, woe to the in- tes.” ‘5So the four angels were released,
habitants ofthe earth, at the blasts of the who had been held ready for the hour,
other trumpets that the three angels are the day, the month, and the year, to kill
about to blow!” a third of humankind. “The number of
9 And the ﬁfth angel blew his trum- the troops of cavalry was two hundred
pet, and I saw a star that had fallen
froln heaven to earth» and hc W35 givcn 1/ That is, Drsrrnrtion iv That is, Destroyer
tl'1C l(6Y IO the shaft ofthe bottomless pit; .\* Other ancient authorities lackfimr
I ililz e S e 1' e H Tr u m p 1’/5]
272

﻿REVELATION 11.9
million; I heard their number. 17And this hand of the angel who is standing on the
was how I saw the horses in my vision: sea and on the land." "So I went to the
the riders wore breastplates the color of angel and told him to give me the little
ﬁre and of sapphireY and of sulfur; the scroll; and he said to me, “Take it, and
heads ofthe horses were like lions’ heads, eat; it will be bitter to your stomach, but
and ﬁre and smoke and sulfur came out sweet as honey in your mouth.” 1°50 I
oftheir mouths. “By these three plagues took the little scroll from the hand of the
a third of humankind was killed, by the angel and ate it; it was sweet as honey in
ﬁre and smoke and sulfur coming out of my mouth, but when I had eaten it, my
their mouths. “)For the power of the stomach was made bitter.
horses is in their mouths and in their tails; 11 Then they said to me, “You must
their tails are like serpents, having heads; prophesy again about many peoples and
and with them they inflict harm. nations and languages and kings.”
20 The rest ofhumankind, who were
not killed by these plagues, did not re- 1 1 Then I was given a measuring
pent of the works of their hands or give rod like a staff, and I was told,
up worshiping demons and idols ofgold “Come and measure the temple of God
and silver and bronze and stone and and the altar and those who worship
wood, which cannot see or hear or walk. there, Zbut do not measure the court out-
31 And they did not repent of their mur- side the temple; leave that out, for it is
ders or their sorceries or their fornication given over to the nations, and they will
or their thefts. trample over the holy city for forty-two
1 O And I saw another mighty angel months. 3And I will grant my two wit-
coming down from heaven, nesses authority to prophesy for one
wrapped in a cloud, with a rainbow over thousand two hundred sixty days, wear-
his head; his face was like the sun, and his ing sackcloth. ”
legs like pillars of ﬁre. 3He held a little 4 These are the two olive trees and the
scroll open in his hand. Setting his right two lampstands that stand before the
foot on the sea and his left foot on the Lord ofthe earth. 5And ifanyone wants
land, 3he gave a great shout, like a lion to harm them, ﬁre pours from their
roaring. And when he shouted, the seven mouth and consumes their foes; anyone
thunders sounded. ‘And when the seven who wants to harm them must be killed
thunders had sounded, I was about to in this manner. “They have authority to
write, but I heard a voice from heaven shut the sky, so that no rain may fall
saying, “Seal up whatthe seven thunders during the days of their prophesying,
have said, and do not write it down.“ and they have authority over the waters
5Then the angel whom I saw standing on to turn them into blood, and to strike the
the sea and the land earth with every kind of plague, as often
raised his right hand to heaven as they desire.
6 and swore by him who lives 7 When they have ﬁnished their testi-
forever and ever, mony, the beast that comes up from the
who created heaven and what is in it, the bottomless pit will make war on them
earth and what is in it, and the sea and and conquer them and kill them, gand
what is in it: “There will be no more their dead bodies will lie in the street of
delay, 7but in the days when the seventh the great city that is prophetically“ called
angel is to blow his trumpet, the mystery Sodom and Egypt, where also their Lord
ofG0d will be fulﬁlled, as he announced was cruciﬁed. 9For three and a half days
to his servants= the prophets.” members of the peoples and tribes and
8 Then the voice that I had heard
from heaven spoke to me again, saying, Y Gk ;,y,,(,',,,h z Gk _,.;,,,,,._,.
“GO, télkt‘ the SCYOII that i5 open in (I16 a Or allrjqorirally; Gk xpiritually
|'1'h<' /*Ir1,Qr'l with rl1r'l.irrlcSrrnll]
273

﻿REVELATION 11.10
languages and nations will gaze at their and for destroying those who
dead bodies and refuse to let them be destroy the earth.”
placed in a tomb; wand the inhabitants of 19 Then God's temple in heaven was
the earth will gloat over them and cele- opened, and the ark of his covenant was
brate and exchange presents, because seen within his temple; and there were
these two prophets had been a torment to ﬂashes of lightning, rumblings, peals of
the inhabitants of the earth. thunder, an earthquake, and heavy hail.
11 But after the three and a half days,
the breath” of life from God entered 1 2 A ETC?" Domini appcafcd in h¢11V-
them, and they stood on their fect, and en: a woman clothed with the
thQ5¢ who 53w them were tQrriﬁQd_ SL111, With tl'1C T110011 L1I1d€I' her f(.‘Ct, and
l2T1-lcn theyr heard 3 l()ud voice from on her head a crown oftwelve stars. 3She
heaven saying to them, “Come up here!” Was pregnant and was crying out in
And they went up to heaven in 3 c1Qud birth pangs, in the agony of giving birth.
while their enemies watched them. 13 At 3Then another portent appeared in heav-
thgt moment there was 3 grcgt c3rth- CHI 3 great I‘Cd dragon, With SCVCD l1C;1dS
qugkc’ and 3, tenth of the city fell; seven and {C11 l10FI1S, and SCVCD dl3dCmS on l'1lS
thousand people were killed in the earth- h¢11d5- ‘Hi5 fail SWCPY do“/I1 11 third of
qugkg, and thg fgst wcrc tcrriﬁcd and the stars ofheaven and threw them to the
gave glory to the God of heaven. earth. Then the dragon stood before the
14 Th6 Second Woe has p;,5S¢d_ The woman who was about to bear a child,
third W06 is Coming wry Soon so that he might devour her child as soon
15 Then the seventh angel blew his as it W35 bom- 5/‘mo Sho gave birth to 3
trumpet, and there were loud voices in So"; 3 malo Child’ who is to rulol all the
heaven, Saying, nations with a rod of iron. But her child
“The kingdom of the World has was snatched away and taken to Godand
become the kingdom of our to his throne; “and the woman ﬂed into
Lord the wilderness, where she has a place pre-
and of his Messiahﬁ pared by God, so that there she can be
and he will reign forcvcr and nourished for one thousand two hundred
CVCL” sixty days. 4 _
16 Then the twenty-four elders who 7 And War broke out m hcavrcnl M1-
. . _ ‘ chael and his angels fought against the
sit on their thrones before (rod fell on dra on Tm dm on and his an C15
their faces and worshiped God, l7sing- fOuiht'baCk i xbutgthey Wore dcfcaid
mg; . , and there was no longer any place for
We give you thanks, Lord 00d them in heaven. ‘)The great dragon was
Almighty’ thrown down, that ancient serpent, who
who are and Who Were’ is called the Devil and Satan the deceiver
for You havo taken Your gm“ of the whole world—he was thrown
Power _ down to the earth, and his angels were
and bogun to T618“ thrown down with him.
18 Tho muons T3g¢d- 10 Then I heard a loud voice in heav-
but YOLII‘ WI'€l[l'1 T135 COIIIC, ch, prgclginlings
and the time for judging the “Now have come the salvation
dead, and the power
for rewarding Your Servants," the and the kingdom of our God
prophets
and Saints and an W110 fear your b Or the vpirit r Other ancient authorities
llamci read I d Gk Chris! 2’ Gk .<I<1z/rs"
both small and great, f OfI¢7_<lIt'p/1(’Yt/
[T11 4" Won: L1” i1 Nd the l)ru_Qor1]
274

﻿REVELATION 13.14
and the authority of his seemed to have received a death-blow,
Mcssjaha but its mortal woundl‘ had been healed.
for (hf; acgugcr Qf Qur QQn1r;1dQ5" In 31’l'13ZCI'I1CI'1C thC Wh0lC C3I'(l'1 fOllOW€d
has boon thrown down, the beast. 4They worshiped the dragon,
who 3(j(ju5¢5[hQ1n day and night for he had given his authority to the
hoforq our God_ beast, and they worshiped the beast, say-
11 But thoy hgvc (j()]]quQ1"Qd him by ing, “Who is like the beast, and who can
the blood of the Lamb ﬁght Qgiilnst it?”
and by the word of their 5 The beast was given a mouth utter-
testimony, ing haughty and blasphemous words,
f()f thgy  n()[ Cling [Q  CVCI] and it W25 3llOWL‘d (O CX€I‘CiSC £lLl[hO1'itY
in tho fgcc of death for forty-two months. “It opened its
12 Rejoice then, you heavens mouth to utter blasphemies against God,
and [hQ§Q who dwoll in them! blaspheming his name and his dwelling,
But W03 {Q thc Q31-th and thc 5433, that iS, Kfl‘1OS6 Wl1O dW6ll in heaven. 7AlSO
for tho dovjl has gomo down to it was allowed to make war on the saints
you and to conquer them.’ lt was given au-
with great wrath, thority over every tribe and people and
hooaugo ht; knows that his timc language and nation, 8and all the inhabi-
is short!” tants of the earth will worship it, every-
13 SQ Whgn thc d1'3g()11 53W that ht) ODC WhOS€ HHITIC h2lS DOI been written
had bcgn thrgwn dQw11 [Q thc cgfthy hc fl'OI'I1 Il'1C fOl111d2.{lOl'1 Of (l'1C WOI‘lCl in {l'1C
purguedl tho wgman whQ had givcn bOOk Ofliffi Oftl1C Lamb that W215 slaugh-
birth to the male child. '4 But the woman fﬁféda ’"
was given the two wings of the great 9 I-6F 3nY0n@ W110 1135 an 611T listﬁni
eagle, so that she could fly from the ser- 1° If You -"C to bc mkﬁn Cilpfivff,
pent into the wilderness, to her place into captivity V011 g0;
where she is nourished for a time, and if you kill with the sword,
times, and halfa time. 15Then from his with the sword you must be
mouth the serpent poured water like a killed.
river after the woman, to sweep her Here is a call for the endurance and faith
away with the ﬂood. “But the earth of the saints.
came to the help ofthe woman; it opened 11 Then I saw another beast that rose
its mouth and swallowed the river that out of the earth; it had two horns like a
the dragon had poured from his mouth. lamb and it spoke like a dragon. l3It exer-
17Then the dragon was angry with the cises all the authority ofthe first beast on
woman, and went offto make war on the its behalf, and it makes the earth and its
rest of her children, those who keep the inhabitants worship the ﬁrst beast,
commandments 0fGod and hold the tes- whose mortal wound" had been healed.
timony ofjesus. 13lt performs great signs, even making
18 Then the dragonf took his stand ﬁre come down from heaven to earth in
1 3 on the sand ofthe seashore. ‘And the sight of all; 14 and by the signs that it
I saw a beast rising out of the is allowed to perform on behalf of the
sea, having ten horns and seven heads; beast, it deceives the inhabitants ofearth,
and on its horns were ten diadems, and telling them to make an image for the
on its heads were blasphemous namC5- _q Gk Christ h Gk brothers i Orperaeruted
ZAnd the beast that I saw was like a 1c0p- j Gk Then he; other ancient authorities read Thm
ard‘ its fcct were like a bﬁiarisi and its I (I)€l'1Oe(i'dancieiiitiliiflgiifiiizfgiaikiiiiiisttitence
mouth was hkc  hon S 1nOuth'.And the m Or uirrtrm in the bvok Qflfﬂ’ ofthc Lamb that
dragon gave It hls power and hls throne was slaughtz’vedfr<\m llieﬁiundatiorr qfthe umvld
and great authority. 3OﬂC Of itS l'1C3C.lS n Gk whore plague Qfitr death
[The l"1'r.\‘rB¢'i1_<r]
275

﻿REVELATION 13.15
beast that had been wounded by the of the wine of the wrath of her fornica-
sword° and yet lived; l5and it was al- tion.”
lowed to give breathl’ to the image ofthe 9 Then another angel, a third, fol-
beast so that the image ofthe beast could lowed them, crying with a loud voice,
even speak and cause those who would “Those who worship the beast and its
not worship the image of the beast to be image, and receive a mark on their fore-
killed. “Also it causes all, both small and heads or on their hands, lnthey will also
great, both rich and poor, both free and drink the Wine of God’s Wrath, poured
slave, to be marked on the right hand or unmixed into the cup of his anger, and
the forehead, 17 so that no one can buy or they will be tormented with fire and sul-
sell who does not have the mark, that is, fur in the presence of the holy angels and
the name of the beast or the number of in the presence of the Lamb. 11 And the
its name. “This calls for Wisdom: let smoke of their torment goes up forever
anyone with understanding calculate the and ever. There is no rest day or night for
number ofthe beast, for it is the number those who worship the beast and its im-
ofa person. Its number is six hundred age and for anyone who receives the
sixty-sixﬂ mark of its name.”
14 Then I looked, and there W85 the 12 Here is a call for the endurance of
Lamb, standing on Mount Zion! the saints, those who keep the com-
And with him Were one hundred f0rty- mandments of God and hold fast to the
four thousand who had his name and his faith Of» Jesus,
F2[l'1€I‘,Sl’13l]1CWI'ltt€11 OD lIl'1€lI‘ fOfChC2ldS.  And I hggrd 3 vgicg frgnl hcavcn
3And I heard a voice from heaven like the saying, “Write this: Blessed are the dead
sound ofmany waters and like the sound who from now on dlc in {hg Lgrdf‘
of loud thunder; the voice I heard was “YCS,” Says thc Spirit, “they will rQ5[
1ik¢ (hf? $0lmd Ofhafpists playing on th¢iT from their labors, for their deeds follow
harps, 3and they sing a new song before thcmf‘
the throne and before the four living l4 Then l looked’ and them was 3
creatures and before the elders. No one White ClOud_ and Scaled on thc Cloud was
could learn that song except the one hun— one like the son of Mam with 3 golden
drcd f°TtY‘f°nY thousand who havc been crown on his head, and a sharp sickle in
redeemed from the earth. 4Itis these who his hahdl 15An0thCr angel Camh out of
have not defiled themselves with wom- thc tcmplcy Calllhg Wlth a loud volch to
911, {Of thcy arc Vlfglns; $11051‘ follow ‘hi’ the one who sat on the cloud, “Use your
Lamb Wh¢Y¢\/C1‘ hc g0¢5- T1193’ h3V'~‘ bccn sickle and reap, for the hour to reap has
Ycdwmed from humankind 35 ﬁrst nuns come, because the harvest of the earth is
for God and the Lamb, 5and in their fully rlpcj’ 1650 thc one who Sat Oh thc
mouth no lie was found; they are blame- Cloud swung his Sickle Over the earth,
195$ _ _ and the earth was reaped.
6 Then l saw another angel ﬂying in
midheaven, With an eternal gospel to thh tcmplc in hcavcn and he too had 3
Prochnm to those who hvei On the sharp sickle. '*‘Then another angel came
earth—to every nation and tribe andlan- out from the altar‘ the angcl who has
guage and P601316 7H? Sald ln 3 loud authority over fire, and he called with a
voice, “Fear God and give him glory, f0Y loud voice to him who had the sharp
the hour of l1lS_]l1dgII1CI1lI has come; and Slcklc, “Use your Sharp Slcklc and gathcr
Worship hhn who made heaven and the clusters of the vine of the earth, for
earth, the sea and the springs of water.”
8 Then .anOtP€r angel‘ 3 Shcond’ FOL p Or spirit q Other ancient authorities read
lowed, Savlng, Fallchi fallen 1_5 Babylon six himdred sixmw r Gk sir 5 Or to their
the great! She has made all nations drink faith in
17 Then another angel came out of
0 Or rim! had nireii/ed the plague of the <14/nrd
[T/1:’ L.{1Hl[?\1Hd[]lt' R(’dt’(‘!l|('t1]
276

﻿REVELATION 16.13
its grapes are ripe." 1"So the angel swung gels, “Go and pour out on the earth the
his sickle over the earth and gathered the seven bowls of the wrath of God.”
vintage of the earth, and he threw it into
2 So the ﬁrst angel went and poured
the great wine press ofthe wrath ofGod. his bowl on the earth, and a foul and
3”And the wine press was trodden out- painful sore came on those who had the
side the city, and blood flowed from the mark ofthe beast and who worshiped its
wine press, as high as a horse’s bridle, for image.
3 The second angel poured his bowl
Then I saw another portent in into the sea, and it became like the blood
heaven, great and amazing: seven ofa corpse, and every living thing in the
angels with seven plagues, which are the sea died.
a distance of about two hundred miles.’
last, for with them the wrath of God is
4 The third angel poured his bowl
ended. into the rivers and the springs of water,
2 And I Saw what gppggred [Q bg 3 56;; and they became blood. 5And I heard the
of glass mixed with ﬁre, and those who 311201 Of $116 Wamfs 533%
had conquered the beast and its image
and the number of its name, standing
beside the sea of glass with harps of God
in their hands. 3And they sing the song
“You are just, O Holy One, who
are and were,
for you have judged these
things;
of Moses, the servant" of God, and the 6 because they shed the blood of
song of the Lamb:
“Great and amazing are your
deeds,
Lord God the Almighty!
saints and prophets,
you have given them blood to
drink.
It is what they deserve!”
Just and true arc your Ways’ 7And I heard the altar respond,
King of the nations!"
4 Lord, who will not fear
and glorify your name?
For you alone are holy.
“Yes, O Lord God, the Almighty,
yourjudgments are true and
just!"
8 The fourth angel poured his bowl
All nations will Come on the sun, and it was allowed to scorch
and worship before you
people with ﬁre; 9they were scorched by
for your judgmmts have gccn the ﬁerce heat, but they cursed the name
,, of God, who had authority over these
rcvcalcd plagues, and they did not repent and give
him glory.
5 After this l looked, and the temple
10 The ﬁfth angel poured his bowl on
of the lclllw of Wllmss ln llﬁlvcll was the throne of the beast, and its kingdom
opened, “and out ofthe temple came the
was plunged into darkness; people
Scvcll angels wllll lllc S¢Y°“_ plagues’ gnawed their tongues in agony, 11 and
lobed lll pure bllglll llnelli A Wllll golden cursed the God ofheaven because oftheir
sashes across their chests. 7Then one of
pains and sores, and they did not repent
the four living creatures gave the seven of their deeds
angels seven golden bowls full of the
12 The sixth angel poured his bowl
Wlalll of God‘ who llvcs folcvcl llllcl on the great river Euphrates and its wa-
8 ,
CV“; and the temple was ﬁlled Wltll ter was dried up in order to prepare the
smoke from the glory of God and from Way for the kings from the east 13And I
llls power: and llo one Could Clllcl lllc saw three foul spirits like frogs coming
temple until the seven plagues ofthe sev-
Cn angds Wcrc ended t Gk om’ thousand six hugrzillred stadia u Gk slave
. ‘ v Other ancient authorities read the ages
16 Then l hcilrd  loud Volclr from iu Ortahemarlc x Other ancient authorities
the temple telling the seven an— read $10711’
[T110 B U H’ I .< of (J
277
0d'.\' Wrath]

﻿REVELATION 13.14
and the authority of his seemed to have received a death-blow,
MQ55jah_.v but its mortal woundl‘ had been healed.
fgf the QCCLISQI‘ Qf our (jgniradcgll ll} 2ln121ZClT1CI1t thC WhOlC Cﬂfth fOllOWCCl
has been thrown down_ the beast. ‘They worshiped the dragon,
who accuses [hem day and night fOI‘ h€ had given hiS 2LlthOl'itY t0 thtl
bqfore our God beast, and they worshiped the beast, say-
ll But [hey hgvc conqucfcd  by ing, “WhO 1S  thC bC2lSt, and WhO C2111
the blood of the Lamb ﬁght against it?”
and by th¢ word of their 5 The beast was given a mouth utter-
tcgtiffignyy ing haughty and blasphemous words,
for they did not cling to life even and it was allowed to exercise authority
in the face of death for forty-two months. “It opened its
13 Rejoice then, you heavens mouth to utter blasphemies against God,
and those who dwell in thcnil blaspheming his name and his dwelling,
But W03 to the earth and the 5Q;1, that iS, thOS6 WhO ClWCll in hC21VC11. 7/\lSO
for tho devil has Como down to it was allowed to make war on the saints
yon and to conquer them.’ lt was given au-
with great wrath, thority over every tribe and people and
bccaugc he knows that his time language and 1121t1011, 82nd Zlll th6 inhabi-
is Short!” tants of the earth will worship it, every-
13 So wbt-n tho dragon saw that ho one whose name has not been written
had boon thrown down to tho garth, ht» from the foundation of the world in the
pursued‘ thc Woman who had given bOOl( Ofliftt ofthe Lamb that W215 slaugh-
birth to the male child. 14 But the woman I@fCd- m
was gjvbn the two Wings of thb great 9 Let anyone who has an ear listen:
eagle, so that she could fly from the ser- 1° If YOU 3"‘ to bi‘ t3k@n Capti‘/6,
pent into the wilderness, to her place iﬂfO captivity V011 g0;
where she is nourished for a time, and if you kill with the sword,
times, and halfa time. l5Then from his with the sword you must be
mouth the serpent poured water like a killed.
river after the woman, to sweep her Here is a call for the endurance and faith
away with the ﬂood. l°But the earth of the saints.
came to the help ofthe woman; it opened 11 Then I saw another beast that rose
its mouth and swallowed the river that out of the earth; it had two horns like a
the dragon had poured from his mouth. lamb and it spoke like a dragon. 13It exer-
17Then the dragon was angry with the cises all the authority ofthe ﬁrst beast on
woman, and went offto make war on the its behalf, and it makes the earth and its
rest of her children, those who keep the inhabitants worship the first beast,
commandments ofGod and hold the tes— whose mortal wound" had been healed.
timony ofjesus. 13It performs great signs, even making
18 Then the dragon/' took his stand ﬁre come down from heaven to earth in
13 on the sand ofthe seashore. lAnd the sight of all; Hand by the signs that it
I saw a beast rising out of the is allowed to perform on behalf of the
sea, having ten horns and seven heads; beast, it deceives the inhabitants ofearth,
and on its horns were ten diadems, and telling them to make an image for the
on its heads W€r9 b135ph€mOu5 n3n1e5- g Gk Christ h Gk brothers i Or pevsmated
2And the beast that l saw was like a lCOp— j Gk Then he; other ancient authorities read Then
ard‘ its fart were Mk? 3 bearisl and its I (I)fh0eti'daricie,iit(i1li1fh:>ifiiiz§£“la€’kiiihiifsltlnteiice
mouth was hke  hon S Inouth‘ .And the m Or written in the book qf 1112» Qfthe Lamb that
dragon gave 1t hls power and hls thrOnC was sIaughtert'dfr<1m thefoundation Qfrhe world
and great 8l1thOI'itY. 3on6 Of ltS hC21ClS r1 Gk who.WpIag14r* Qfits death
{The Iiirxr l§r'u.\"!]
275

﻿REVELATION 16.14
from the mouth of the dragon, from the “Babylon the great, mother of whores
mouth of the beast, and from the mouth and ofearth’s abominations. " “And I saw
ofthe false prophet. "These are demonic that the woman was drunk with the
spirits, performing signs, who go abroad blood of the saints and the blood of the
to the kings of the whole world, to as— witnesses to Jesus.
semble them for battle on the great day When I saw her, l was greatly amazed.
ofGod the Almighty. 15 (“See, lam com- 7But the angel said to me, “Why are you
ing like a thief! Blessed is the one who so amazed? I will tell you the mystery of
stays awake and is clothed,Y not going the woman, and of the beast with seven
about naked and exposed to shame”) heads and ten horns that carries her. “The
16And they assembled them at the place beast that you saw was, and is not, and
that in Hebrew is called Harmagedon. is about to ascend from the bottomless
17 The seventh angel poured his bowl pit and go to destruction. And the inhab-
into the air, and a loud voice came out of itants ofthe earth, whose names have not
the temple, from the throne, saying, “It been written in the book oflife from the
is done!" 1*/\nd there came ﬂashes of foundation ofthe world, will be amazed
lightning, rumblings, peals of thunder, when they see the beast, because it was
and a violent earthquake, such as had not and is not and is to come.
occurred since people were upon the 9 “This calls for a mind that has wis-
earth, so violent was that earthquake. dom: the seven heads are seven moun-
19The great city was split into three tains on which the woman is seated; also,
parts, and the cities of the nations fell. they are seven kings, 1"of whom five
God remembered great Babylon and have fallen, one is living, and the other
gave her the wine-cup of the fury of his has not yet come; and when he comes, he
wrath. 2“/-\nd every island ﬂed away, and must remain only a little while. ll As for
no mountains were to be found; 31 and the beast that was and is not, it is an
huge hailstones, each weighing about a eighth but it belongs to the seven, and it
hundred pounds, = dropped from heaven goes to destruction. l3And the ten horns
on people, until they cursed God for the that you saw are ten kings who have not
plague of the hail, so fearful was that yet received a kingdom, but they are to
plague. receive authority as kings for one hour,
together with the beast. “These are unit-
1 '7 Then one ofthe seven angels who ed in yielding their power and authority
had the seven bowls came and to the beast; "they will make war on the
said to me, “Come, I will show you the Lamb, and the Lamb will conquer them,
judgment ofthe great whore who is seat- for he is Lord oflords and King ofkings,
ed on many waters, 3with whom the and those with him are called and chosen
kings of the earth have committed forni- and faithful. "
cation, and with the wine of whose for- 15 And he said to me, “The waters
nication the inhabitants of the earth have that you saw, where the whore is seated,
become drunk. " 3S0 he carried me away are peoples and multitudes and nations
in the spirit" into a wilderness, and I saw and languages. “And the ten horns that
a woman sitting on a scarlet beast that you saw, they and the beast will hate the
was full of blasphemous names, and it whore; they will make her desolate and
had seven heads and ten horns. 4The naked; they will devour her ﬂesh and
woman was clothed in purple and scar- burn her up with fire. l7For God has put
let, and adorned with gold and jewels it into their hearts to carry out his pur-
and pearls, holding in her hand a golden pose by agreeing to give their kingdom
cup full of abominations and the impuri-
ties of her fornication; 5and on her fore- Y Gk and ;m,p_,_ his ,(,;,,., I Gk ,,,,.,-‘Qh,,,£ aha“, ,,
head was written a name, a mystery: talent a Orin rm» Spin‘:
|'I'l1¢'(}rvi1lWlzoreandlhc[fruit]
278

﻿REVELATION 18.17
to the beast, until the words of God will a single day—
be fulﬁlled. 18 The woman you saw is the pestilence and mourning and
great city that rules over the kings of the famine——
earth.“ and she will be burned with fire;
1 8 After this I saw another angel for mighty is the Lord God who
coming down from heaven, hav— judges her. ”
ing great authority; and the earth was 9 And the kings of the earth, who
made bright with his splendor. 3He committed fornication and lived in luxu-
called out with a mighty voice, ry with her, will weep and wail over her
“Fallen, fallen is Babylon the great! when they see the smoke ofher burning;
It has bccgfne 3  placg lOtl1€Y  stand far Off, ln f€3.I' Of l'1€I'
Of dgrngns, IOFITICIII, and say,
a haunt of every foul spirit, “A1115, 3135- Yhc gr?“ CRY;
a haunt of every foul bird, Bzlbyloni the mlghtlf Qty!
a haunt of every foul and hateful For 1n one hour Your Judgmmu
bust» has come.”
3 For an the nations haw drunk, ll And the merchants of the earth
of the Wine of the Wrath of her weep and mourn for her, since no one
fornication, buys their cargo anymore, 1—cargo of
and the kings of thc Garth have gold, silver, _]CWClS and pearls, fine linen,
committcd fornication with purple, silk and scarlet, all kinds ofscent-
her, ed wood, all articles of ivory, all articles
and thc merchants of thc earth of costly wood, bronze,‘ iron, and mar-
havc grown rich from the ble, l3cinnamon,_spice, incense, myrrh,
powerd of ha, luxury” frankiiicense, wine, Ol1VC oil, Choice
4 Then I heard another Voice from flour and wheat, cattle and sheep, horses
haven Saying and“chariots_, slavesfand human lives.’
“Come Dug of her’ my people, 14 The ﬁiﬂlt fodr which your soul
so that you do not take part in Ongc
her Sins, has gone from you,
and so that you do not Sham and all your dainties and your
in her plagues; Spkndor
5 for her sins are heaped high as are lost to you’ _
heaven never to be found again!”
and God has rcmcmbcred hcr "The merchants of these wares, who
iniquitiCS_ gained wealth from her, Wlll stand far
6 Render to her as She hgrself has off, in fear of her torment, weeping and
rsndercd’ mourning aloud, _
and repay her double for her 16 A135’ alas’ thc glkcat CIW’
deeds. clothed in ﬁne linen,
mix a double draught for her in In purpk, and Scarlet’
the Cup She miXcd_ adorned with gold,
7 As she glorified herself and lived with j°Wc15= and with Pearls!
luxuriously, 17 For in one hour all lTl11'S“WC2l[l1 has
so give her a like measure of been lald wast“
torment and gI‘l€f. b Other .lIlClL‘l1[ aiitliorities lack the words ii
Since in hcr hcgrt ghg Says‘ lltlllill qf'ci'r’ry,!ii|ll Alum! and .itt;ich the words mid
‘I we as a Wm;    P;",*‘::*;::, ‘:32:   2;..:i*;*‘.;:.£:1:‘:"
- Q (’I’('Y}/>4!!! an Ii ¢_’ 1 ‘ ; ‘
I am no Wldow’ _ , llUIl‘l(7l’lKlCS read She has made all riarimis drink
and I W11] ncl/Qr 59¢ grlefi d Or r<'.\wirn'_< e Or (hiiriiits, mid lmmiui bmliei"
8 therefore her plagues will come in lllld Hull;
|'l'li¢' I’ all 0_!'Buliyliir1]
279

﻿REVELATION 18.18
And all shipmasters and seafarers, sail- Salvation and glory and power to
ors and all whose trade is on the sea
, our God,
stood far off“; and cried out as they saw 2 for his judgments are true and
the smoke of her burning,
“What city was like the great
city?”
19And they threw dust on their heads, as
they wept and mourned, crying out,
“Alas, alas, the great city,
where all who had ships at sea
grew rich by her wealth!
For in one hour she has been laid
waste."
just;
he has judged the great whore
who corrupted the earth with
her fornication,
and he has avenged on her the
blood of his servants.”*‘
3Onee more they said,
“Hallelujah!
The smoke goes up from her
forever and ever.”
20 R@j0iC¢ 0‘/CT 119$ O h¢11V¢‘I1- You 4And the twenty-four elders and the four
Saints and QPOSYICS and Pmphmsl For G0d living creatures fell down and worshiped
has given _ludgmCm {QT Y0“ 3:‘?-almt hen God who is seated on the throne, saying,
21 Then a mighty angel took up
3 “Amen. Hallelujah!”
stone like a great millstone and threw it __ A d f h \ 1 .
into the sea, saying,
“With such violence Babylon the
great city
will be thrown down,
and will be found no more"
22 and the sound of harpists and
minstrels and of ﬂutists and
trumpeters
will be heard in you no more;
and an artisan of any trade
will be found in you no
more;
and the sound of the millstone
will be heard in you no
more;
23 and the light of a lamp
will shine in you no more;
and the voice of bridegroom and
bride
will be heard in you no more;
for your merchants were the
magnates of the earth,
“> n rom t c tirone came a voice
saying,
“Praise our God,
all you his servants,-Q
and all who fear him,
’ aa
small and great.
"Then l heard what seemed to be the
voice ofa great multitude, like the sound
of many waters and like the sound of
mighty thunderpeals, crying out,
“Hallelujah!
For the Lord our God
the Almighty reigns.
7 Let us rejoice and exult
and give him the glory,
for the marriage of the Lamb has
come,
and his bride has made herself
ready;
8 to her it has been granted to be
clothed
with fine linen, bright and
‘ ‘n
and all nations were deceived by
your sorcery.
24 And in you’ was found the blood
of prophets and of saints,
and of all who have been
1 h -d h "
pure
for the fine linen is the righteous deeds of
the saints.
9 And the angel said" to me, “Write
this: Blessed are those who are invited to
S Hug tcm on an ' the marriage supper of the Lamb.” And
1 9 After this I heard what seemed to
be the loud voice ofa great multi
tude in heaven, saying,
“Hallelujah!
he said to me, “These are true words of
f Gk her ,9 Gk slamzr Ii Gk he said
[The1€<{/oirzvieiriIlinzverz]
280

﻿REVELATION 20.11
God.” l"Then l fell down at his feet to  Then I saw an angel coming
worship him, but he said to me, “You down from heaven, holding in
must not do that! I am a fellow servant‘ his hand the key to the bottomless pit and
with you and your comrades’ who hold a great chain. 2He seized the dragon, that
the testimony of Jesus. ‘* Worship God! ancient serpent, who is the Devil and Sa-
For the testimony ofjesusk is the spirit tan, and bound him for a thousand years,
of prophecy.” 3and threw him into the pit, and locked
and sealed it over him, so that he would
1] Then I saw heaven opened, and deceive the nations no more, until the
there was a white horse! Its rider is called thousand years were ended. After that he
Faithful and True, and in righteousness must be let out for a little while.
hojtltlgos and m11l<@5 W31 i2 Hi5 W65 are 4 Then I saw thrones, and those seat-
 3 ﬂ3n1C Of ﬁre, and On  head ZITC Cd on then"! were givgn authority to
IT13hY dlﬁtlcms; and h¢ hi5 J 1131119 in" judge. Ialso saw the souls of those who
Scflhotl that ho ohc knows but hhh5t‘lf- had been beheaded for their testimony to
“H6 l5 clothed lh 3 Fob? dlppcd lhi Jesus" and for the word of God. They
blood, and his Ilﬂmt’ l5 Cilllod Tho Word had not worshiped the beast or its image
of Gotl “And tho ﬂfmlos of h¢3V¢h- and had not received its mark on their
Woatlhg ﬁhc llhoh» Whltc and Putt? Wore foreheads or their hands. They came to
following him on Whlte hoT5@5- iilstom life and reigned with Christ a thousand
his mouth comes a sharp sword with yea“ 5(Th¢ rest of the dead did not
 tO StI'll(C dO\/Vll the I1Z1tl()I'lS, and hC Corn‘? to  until thg thousand years
will rule” them with a rod ofiron; he will were ¢hd¢d_) This is the ﬁrst resul-r¢C_
tfoild tho Wlho PY¢55 of tho furl’ of tho tion. ‘>B1essed and holy are those who
Wrath of God tho AlmlghtY- won hls share in the ﬁrst resurrection. Over these
foht‘ and on hi5 thigh ho h95 3 hamo lh- the second death has no power, but they
scribed, “King of kings and Lord of will be priests of God and of chm, and
loPd5-ii they will reign with him a thousand
17 Then l saw an angel standing in the y¢;;;5_
sun, and with a loud voice he called to all 7 when the thousand Wars are ended
the biids that fiy iii iiiidiiciivcni ‘iconic’ Satan will be released from his prison
gather for the gicat supper of God’ mm Band will come out to deceive the nations
mi iiic iiesii of kings’ the iicsii of Cap“ at the four corners of the earth Gog and
tains, the ﬂesh ofthe mighty, the ﬂesh of Magog in Order to gather than for bah
horses and their riders—ﬂesh ofall, both tie; thesi, am as numerous as thh Sands of
free and slave, both small and great. the Sea gThcy marched up Ovcr the
19 ‘ '
Tiien i saw iiic beast and the kiiigs Oi breadth of the earth and surrounded the
the earth with their armies gathered to Camp of the Saints and thc hdovcd city
make war against the rider on the horse And ﬁre Came down {mm heaven. and
and against iiis army‘ Zi)Aiid the beast consumed them. l0And the devil who
was Capiiiicii’ and with it iii“ fsisc had deceived them was thrown into the
piopiici who had pcifoiiiied iii its pics“ lake of fire and sulfur Where the beast
ciicc iii“ signs by which he iicccivcd and the false prophet were, and they will
those Wiio had received ths isiiaik. Ofiiic be tormented day and night forever and
beast and those who worshiped its im— even
age. These two were thrown alive into
the lake of ﬁre that burns with sulfur.
31 And the rest were killed by the sword  gkljlavl’ _ 1' Gl<]llY'°'_h_"§ die Of;{i@$"§h
of the rider on the horse, the sword that i °'?“‘?‘°“‘ “ii oiities in Sim" .6 “”i
f h. h_ d H h‘ b. d m Or will shepherd r1 Orfur the‘ testimony of
came rom 1S lI1Out , an £1 t e If S _](',tu5 0 Other ancient authorities readfrom
WCI'C gorged Wl[l'1 tl1C1f fl€Sl'1. God, our qf heaven, or out ofheavenfrom God
11 Then I saw a great white throne
['1'/14' Th ni4.\"i1nd Yr'i1r.\"]
281

﻿REVELATION 20.12
and the one who sat on it; the earth and will be my children. “But as for the cow-
the heaven ﬂed from his presence, and no ardly, the faithless,' the polluted, the
place was found for them. 1ZAnd I saw murderers, the fornicators, the sorcerers,
the dead, great and small, standing be- the idolaters, and all liars, their place will
fore the throne, and books were opened. be in the lake that burns with ﬁre and
Also another book was opened, the book sulfur, which is the second death.”
oflife. And the dead werejudged accord- 9 Then one of the seven angels who
ing to their works, as recorded in the had the seven bowls full ofthe seven last
books. 13And the sea gave up the dead plagues came and said to me, “Come, I
that were in it, Death and Hades gave up will show you the bride, the wife of the
the dead that were in them, and all were Lamb.” 1°And in the spirit“ he carried
judged according to what they had done. me away to a great, high mountain and
"Then Death and Hades were thrown showed me the holy cityjerusalem com-
into the lake of ﬁre. This is the second ing down out of heaven from God. 11It
death, the lake of ﬁre; l5and anyone has the glory of God and a radiance like
whose name was not found written in a very rare jewel, like jasper, clear as
the book oflife was thrown into the lake crystal. 12It has a great, high wall with
of ﬁre. twelve gates, and at the gates twelve an-
gels, and on the gates are inscribed the
21 Then I saw a new heaven and a names of the twelve tribes of the Israel-
new earth; for the ﬁrst heaven ites; 13011 the east three gates, on the
and the ﬁrst earth had passed away, and north three gates, on the south three
the sea was no more. 3And I saw the holy gates, and on the west three gates. “And
city, the new Jerusalem, coming down the wall of the city has twelve founda-
out of heaven from God, prepared as a tions, and on them are the twelve names
bride adorned for her husband. 3And I of the twelve apostles of the Lamb.
heard a loud voice from the throne say— 15 The angel" who talked to me had
ing, a measuring rod of gold to measure the
“See, the home" of God is among city and its gates and walls. 1‘>The city
mortals. lies foursquare, its length the same as its
He will dwell‘! with them; width; and he measured the city with his
they will be his peoples,’ rod, ﬁfteen hundred miles;“’ its length
and God himself will be with and width and height are equal. 17He also
them;~‘ measured its wall, one hundred forty-
4 he will wipe every tear from their four cubitsx by human measurement,
eyes. which the angel was using. "The wall is
Death will be no more; built of jasper, while the city is pure
mourning and crying and pain will gold, clear as glass. 1"The foundations of
be no more, the wall of the city are adorned with ev-
for the ﬁrst things have passed eryjewel; the ﬁrst wasjasper, the second
away." sapphire, the third agate, the fourth em-
5 And the one who was seated on the erald, 3°the ﬁfth onyx, the sixth carne-
throne said, “See, Iam making all things lian, the seventh chrysolite, the eighth
new.” Also he said, “Write this, for these
words are trustworthy and true." “Then
he said to me, “It is done! I am the Alpha
and the Olncga’ the beginning and thc p Gk the tah_vrm1(I¢* t;_(}k will frIl1t'YHtl(It'
end. To the thirsty I will give water as a ' Om“ “‘"‘:l°'" ‘““h‘"?‘I°§ “"“l 1"""’I" .
. . . 5 Other ZIIIUCHI authormes add and he Ihflf Cod
glft from the Sprlng of the Water of hfe' t Or /hr |n1lu*Ii<'vir|q u Or in the Spirit
7Those who conquer will inherit these 1/ Gk Ht» w Ck twv/w III(Hl_\'¢1Hd smdia
things, and I Will l)C tl1CiI‘ GOd ZIHCI lil1Cy X That is, almost seventy-five yards
['1']: r' New l'I('i1l/{'11t1HdIIIl'l\4Il’|l' lftlrtltl
282

﻿REVELATION 22.19
beryl, the ninth topaz, the tenth chryso- feet of the angel who showed them to
prase, the eleventh jacinth, the twelfth me; "but he said to me, “You must not
amethyst. 31 And the twelve gates are do that! l am a fellow servant” with you
twelve pearls, each ofthe gates is a single and your comrades“ the prophets, and
pearl, and the street of the city is pure with those who keep the words of this
gold, transparent as glass. book. Worship God!”
22 I saw no temple in the city, for its 10 And he said to me, “Do not seal up
temple is the Lord God the Almighty and the words of the prophecy of this book,
the Lamb. 23/‘ind the city has no need of for the time is near. 11Let the evildoer
sun or moon to shine on it, for the glory still do evil, and the ﬁlthy still be ﬁlthy,
of God is its light, and its lamp is the and the righteous still do right, and the
Lamb. 34The nations will walk by its holy still be holy.”
light, and the kings of the earth will
bring their glory into it. 35Its gates will 12 “See, I am coming soon; my re-
never be shut by day——and there will be ward is with me, to repay according to
no night there. 3‘>People will bring into everyone’s work. l3I am the Alpha and
it the glory and the honor of the nations. the Omega, the ﬁrst and the last, the
37 But nothing unclean will enter it, nor beginning and the end.”
anyone who practices abomination or
falsehood, but only those who are writ- 14 Blessed are those who wash their
ten in the Lamb's book of life. robes, A so that they will have the right to
22 Then the angel Y showed me the the tree oflife and may enter the city by
river ofthe water oflife, bright as the gates. 15 Outside are the dogs and sor-
crystal, ﬂowing from the throne of God cerers and fornicators and murderers and
and of the Lamb Zthrough the middle of idolaters, and everyone who loves and
the street ofthe city. On either side ofthe practices falsehood.
river is the tree of lifel with its twelve 16 “It is I, Jesus, who sent my angel
kinds of fruit, producing its fruit each to you with this testimony for the
month; and the leaves of the tree are for churches. I am the root and the descen-
the healing of the nations. 3Nothing ac— dant ofDavid, the bright morning star.”
cursed will be found there any more. But 17 The Spirit and the bride gay,
the throne of God and of the Lamb will “Come,”
bC In If, and  SCl‘V;1I1{S“  WOI'Sl'1lp And lgt gvgfygng WhQ hears gay’
him; ‘lthey will see his face, and his name “COm¢_”
will be on their foreheads. 5And there And la Qveryong who is thirsty
will be no more night; they need no light ¢Qm¢_
oflamp or sun, for the Lord God will be Lot anyone who Wishcs takg thc
their light, and they will reign forever Water ofhfc as 3 gift
and even _ U 18 I warn everyone who hears the
6 And 116 531d to me» The“ Words words of the prophecy of this book: if
are trustworthy and true, for the Lord, anyono adds to thorn’ God Win add to
the G9d ofthe Spmts Oﬁhc Prophcm has that person the plagues described in this
sent his angel to show his servants" what book; 19if anyone takes away from the
must Soon take pl“? _ words ofthe book ofthis prophecy, God
7 “Seer I am Commg Soon! Blessed 15 will take away that person’s share in the
the one who keeps the words of the
prophecy of this book."
y Gk he z Orthe Lamb. Zln the middle qfthe
street of the (ity, and on either side ofthe river, is
8 I’ John’. am the one who hcard and the tree qflife a Gk slai/es b Gk slave
53W these thlngsr And when I h¢3rd and t Gk brothers d Other ancient authorities read
saw them, I fell down to worship at the do his tommandmerlts
I The River of Life]
283

﻿REVELATION 22.19
beryl, the ninth topaz, the tenth chryso- feet of the angel who showed them to
prase, the eleventh jacinth, the twelfth me; "but he said to me, “You must not
amethyst. 31 And the twelve gates are do that! I am a fellow servant” with you
twelve pearls, each ofthe gates is a single and your comrades‘ the prophets, and
pearl, and the street of the city is pure with those who keep the words of this
gold, transparent as glass. book. Worship God!”
22 I saw no temple in the city, for its 10 And he said to me, “Do n0t seal up
temple is the Lord God the Almighty and the words of the prophecy of this book,
the Lamb. 33And the city has no need of for the time is near. “Let the evildoer
sun or moon to shine on it, for the glory still do evil, and the filthy still be ﬁlthy,
of God is its light, and its lamp is the and the righteous still do right, and the
Lamb. 34The nations will walk by its holy still be holy.”
light, and the kings of the earth will
bring their glory into it. 25lts gates will 12 “See, I am coming soon; my re-
never be shut by day—and there will be ward is with me, to repay according to
no night there. 3‘*People will bring into everyone’s work. 131 am the Alpha and
it the glory and the honor ofthe nations. the Omega, the ﬁrst and the last, the
37 But nothing unclean will enter it, nor beginning and the end.”
anyone who practices abomination or
falsehood, but only those who are writ- 14 Blessed are those who wash their
ten in the Lamb’s book of life. robes, 1‘ so that they will have the right to
22 Then the angelY showed me the the tree oflife and may enter the city by
river ofthe water oflife, bright as the gates. 15 Outside are the dogs and sor-
crystal, flowing from the throne of God cerers and foriiicators and murderers and
and of the Lamb Zthrough the middle of idolaters, and everyone who loves and
the street ofthe city. On either side ofthe practices f21lSChOOd-
river is the tree of life‘ with its twelve 16 “It is I, jesus, who sent my angel
kinds of fruit, producing its fruit each to you with this testimony for the
month; and the leaves of the tree are for churches. I am the root and the descen-
the healing of the nations. 3Nothing ac- dant of David, the bright morning star.”
cursed will be found there any more. But 17 Thc Spirit and the bride gay,
the throne of God and of the Lamb will “Come-,”
b6 in lt, and  SCTVQIIIS“  WOl'Sl1lp And let Qvcrygnc whg hggrg ggy,
him; ‘lthey will see his face, and his name “C0m¢_ ”
will be on their foreheads. 5And there And 1C; ¢v¢ryOn¢ who is thirsty
will be no more night; they need no light Coma
oflamp or sun, for the Lord _God will be Let anyone who Wishes take tbs
their light, and they will reign forever Wat“ oflife as 3 gift
and CV61 , “ 18 I warn everyone who hears the
6 And he 531d to mc~ Thcsc Words words of the prophecy of this book: if
are trustworthy and true, for the Lord, anyone adds to them, God Win add to
the G(_)d ofthe Spmts Oﬁhe Prophasi has that person the plagues described in this
sent his angel to show his servants" what book; wif anyone [aims away from the
must 50°“ take PlaC‘;’- _ words ofthe book ofthis prophecy, God
7 “Seer I am Commg 500“! Blessed 15 will take away that person’s share in the
the one who keeps the words of the
prophecy of this book.”
y Gk he z Or the Lamb. Zln the middle ofthe
8 I’ J°h“a am ‘h° °"° Wh° hwd and §Z'§T§§;-f§‘ii§§'y' “Zdtil iillli-ism ZfZi§_§i§§§' ‘S
Saw thcsc th1ng5- And Whcn I héard and r Gk brothers d Other ancient authorities read
SQW tl1Cf1'l, I fCll down IO WOI‘Sl'1ip at the do his commandments
[The River of Life]
283

﻿REVELATION 22.20
trcc oflifc and in the holy city, which arc 21 The grace ofthc Lordjcsus be with
dcscribcd in this book. all the saints. A1ncn."
20 The onc who tcstiﬁcs to thcsc
things 53Y5a “Surely I am coining soon-“ 1' Oth€r ancicnt authorities lack all; Othcrs lack
AYTICD. COIHC, LOI‘d JCSUS! rlw miv1!_\’; others luck Anmz
[Ii¢'zzvdirI1'nn]
284

